what is the real problem that you're
having today could it all be because of
what central banks are doing at this
time let's be honest the very first
thing is that these central banks have
been devaluing your currency they've
been printing a lot of money there's no
question about that and you look at it
there is inflation in every single
category as a result your currency worth
less that means you're saving more and
only getting less at the end of the day
there's no question about that at the
same time you've got a loss of
purchasing power so when you go to buy
something you've been trying harder and
yet getting less as a result it doesn't
mean that you're ruined though we need
to know the truth and once we know the
truth we could then Thrive and prosper
so we have to get from this point of
difficulty over to the point where we're
thriving and in today's video I'm going
to show you what's happening right now
there's all lot to cover and I want to
begin with what's happening with oil I
want to look at some other factors that
I know are affecting you directly right
here one third of Americans would
consider going into credit card debt to
purchase holiday gifts let's face it
people are willing to go in debt we know
that there's over a trillion dollars in
credit card debt and it goes even
further this is where I want to start
because you can see people around you in
these circumstances where they're
getting into debt how does debt even
come to be it is sprung out of existence
out of thin air that's the first problem
okay there's nothing real behind all of
this you could look at the savings rate
and savings rate meaning that you know
after all the expenses everything's paid
there's nothing left okay people have
nothing left that's what this chart
shows us of course at the same time our
credit card debt has been rising
considerably at the same time of course
you've seen it yourself the student
loans now now having to be paid back
that's an additional four hundred
dollars a month they don't have to spend
on other stuff so you could see the
struggle but they're going to go in the
maximum amount of debt we know that all
right at the same time the fed's next
challenge is this 100 a barrel oil and
certainly that puts pressure on the
average individual when you go to the
pumps you're going to be paying more I
know I have and it is very clear to me
that we can see inflation everywhere so
we have the initial problem which is
that you know the people experience a
price increase and then we have to start
asking why well you can point to you
know that Corporation raising prices and
maybe this government policy but nobody
ever wants to point to the number one
factor and that is if you are willing to
devalue a currency well you're going to
get what you asked for and we can see
this all the time if they're printing
money to buy mortgage-backed Securities
and they're you know buying up the
treasuries and all these things well
that does have an impact down the road
we have seen that today but you don't
have to just sit there and take it there
are actions that we can take I'll
discuss that at the end I want you to
know though that the Federal Reserve the
higher these numbers are and the more uh
you know of course the more damage
that's being done to the economy that
gives the excuse of the Federal Reserve
to start slowing down on their fed hikes
to the rate hikes and of course you know
they'll signal that they can't do it in
the future oh but we're going to be real
tough on inflation but at this time we
can certainly see that interest rates
are still at levels what they consider
to be restrictive now at the time you're
watching this video who knows what oil
is at that all depends on many factors
but it is elevated compared to where we
were recently and that puts of course a
Stranglehold on the cost of
Transportation overall individuals
trying to get from point A to point B
but also stuff when stuff is more
expensive to move you know they're going
to add those extra taxes and fees and
everything do you notice that
I want to ask you that question do you
go to order you know whatever it is food
delivery or maybe it's a airplane ticket
or whatever there's always that fee
always that fee gas tax it's always
there or some additional fee we saw the
same thing with restaurants doing that
after 2020 or we're gonna put this
little extra tax in there because we've
been taking a hit recently so we're
going to charge our customers more oh
these things really do hurt the
individual but nobody ever attacks the
fact that you know just think about this
when you have a policy and easy money
policy for well over a decade don't you
think that's going to cause problems
later down the road I think it's pretty
clear it has been it is doing that right
now
that to me shows us that we have cause
for concern because they're not stopping
this policy in fact the next Crisis we
encounter as we go deeper into it not
only is the Fed gonna slow down on their
interest rate hikes not only are they
going to stop but they now reverse and
they now create more inflation how do
you get interest rates to come down
there's something called open market
operations open market operations are
literally printing money this is done at
the New York fed at something they call
the desk the desk is the place where
that action is actually taken where they
do these open market operations they
print money and that forces the interest
rates down it's not as if they just
punch it into a computer there are
actions that need to happen so they have
to print money and that's a simple
matter of fact so watch for that in the
coming months maybe not even years who
knows okay these are just some other
stocks I just want to show you that U.S
stocks rise through the last fed hike
unless there's a recession okay and so
you know depending on the circumstances
after they hike for the last time where
do stocks go in the next uh several days
after markets love it of course so the
very short term is hey that's it that
we're gonna party now everything's fine
but if there's a recession then it's
kind of like uh oh we got problems we
got things to worry about at this time
where's the recession they're not going
to admit it the stats are showing up
that they were given I'll say hey
everything's fine okay well we'll go
with that then I guess Canada's
inflation quickens to four percent
driven by higher gas prices this is not
just Canada all over the place we are
seeing the same thing and of course if
interest if inflation is high then
interest rates have to remain high maybe
we'll see I want to look at some uh
other aspects here over the financial
markets and it's really important that
you understand this so that you can
Thrive and not just survive that's where
we're at today I think for a lot of
people they're in Survival Mode
there's a lot you can do
two things you can have your
self-sufficiency up and you know you
know really good thing I'll talk about
that in a second uh we haven't got an
example of somebody that I want to share
with you that has you know increased
their self-sufficiency and at the same
time we can increase our income okay and
these two things together are going to
help you out quite a bit all right now
this comes from uh just pulling the data
from Seeking Alpha you're not aware of
Seeking Alpha I'll link to that in the
description you can check that out for
yourself
but essentially we're looking at
something that I talked about a while
ago you look at the different sectors in
the U.S value over the past
um you know you do have that one year
but also over the past three years so
during this turbulence where was your
money Best Kept value and that's
something I've been talking about when
you have a little bit of you know
turbulence and chaos and things that are
really uncertain you go to Value because
like in the Warren Buffett kind of way
people are still going to be buying
those stocks during the difficult times
or I should say buying those products
from those companies when they have
their stocks and so that's why we need
to break this down into sector not just
companies because companies get into
scandals and problems you got to look at
this on the sector level and it's very
clear as I've been talking about for
years value is the place where you want
to be when times are difficult but when
you see that there there's you know a
boom time like 2017 for instance that
was the Goldilocks era and so you would
want to put your money in growth because
hey there's nothing wrong right there's
no you know potential problems according
to them and so we also have this this is
from Seeking Alpha 2 and I found out
this information because I get the
emails from them I'm on the premium
and I get the emails from them and they
you know I want Amazon's information uh
because it's just interesting to me as a
company but also because I'm an Amazon
Seller so
um this is it Amazon Goes On hiring
Blitz and bumps up warehouse wages ahead
of holiday season check this out I
thought it was impressive to say the
least but uh it's gonna hire 250
000 in full-time part-time and seasonal
fulfillment center and transportation
roles across the us in front of holiday
season now of course that means not
everybody sticks around but 250
000 people I mean they have I don't even
know the number at this time as well
over a million people that they employ
but just think about that 250
000 okay so it's a huge number there's
no question and so we see that right now
today with this one company what are
they doing but are those jobs the ones
that people will you know stand over the
long period of time there are all these
problems with unions and strikes and so
many things happening now this company
here they're saying they're paying them
over twenty dollars an hour uh but these
days the way it looks
I mean quite frankly even though they're
being paid much more than a minimum wage
it's still that that number there is
still burdensome to a lot of people's
daily lives it's like hey I'm making 20
bucks an hour that's great I'm not
making 15 an hour or potentially less
but I still can't pay my bills and why
is that is that because of Amazon is
that their fault is that we got to
understand the core once we know the
truth then we can prosper looking at
this Home Building collapses Market
struggles there's a lot of people
talking about the home prices collapsing
of course they can collapse if there's a
lot of Supply like we saw in 2008 but if
that's not the case and Home Building
comes down interest rates remain
elevated and you know no problems I know
there's a lot of people talking about
the Airbnb and so on
but if we still remain on the
circumstances in a lot of areas by the
way it's there's no Airbnb
Factor at all in that uh short-term
rentals
some areas they as long as housing
remains depressed in terms of building
prices won't go down they'll go up
collapse in the sense you know some
people refer to as a melt up that's the
worst scenario that is way worse than
prices coming down people are waiting
you're being told you're being sold this
apocalyptic scenario but it's not
necessarily going to be spread evenly
across asset classes remember that and
of course even within an asset class it
breaks down much further housing starts
in single and multi-family rental units
this is important I just want to show
you number one they need a lot the
United States needs a lot of
multi-family uh quite frankly because
the single families are too expensive
and right now neither of them are
getting built but there are some permits
coming through so that's important so
that means you know in a while but still
not yet all right what can you do don't
just sit there you've got to take action
I want to see you taking action and if
you do I'm going to highlight your
scenario on this channel those who share
that information with me but for right
now number one hold assets that don't
fluctuate if the CEO gets held up in a
scandal if somebody touches somebody
else or somebody's accused of touching
somebody else and then suddenly the
stock just gets thrown upside down the
company is over here they're you know
losing advertisers there you don't want
to be a part of that okay and that's why
we can hold on the sector level or we
can go broad index hold it that way you
know that that's the type of thing I
just don't like when people go all in on
one stock because if you went all in on
for instance Tesla last year
you still haven't made money
okay even though there's so much growth
potential we're being told there's Robo
taxis on the street and so on one year
you would have made nothing no dividend
no nothing so if you would have
Diversified into different companies you
could have potentially been making money
in those cases okay so you got to expand
your thought process on that I
understand I'm just I'm cherry picking
Tesla okay I get it the numbers need to
make sense from day one I see this a lot
of times
we can just stick with Tesla as a theme
Robo taxis on the street in 2020 this is
like in 2019 or 2018. oh yeah we're
gonna have a million Robo taxis that
wasn't proven that didn't happen so
watch out okay if there is like
development happening already we are
doing it it's just a matter of us
building that and then shipping it to
this location and it's done okay that's
that's good let's let's invest in that
but not this Pie in the Sky type of idea
that you hear a lot with artificial
intelligence and everything they're
talking about things that are just not
on the horizon at this time so be
careful okay and immediately take a um a
financial audit okay and your financial
audit is going to make you know it's
gonna be different for everybody and you
could do that on compass compass is
totally free for everybody if you want
to just check out my new website it is
officially launched thank you very much
for everybody that has been on Compass
which is connected in with this you can
go you can do your financial audit you
can check it out for yourself so just go
to the
moneygps.com and you only got you know a
couple things to choose from I made it
very simple and of course take a look
here and you will be able to do this
financial audio you're going to go
through Compass you're going to get your
financial situation in order and I
really do want to thank you for doing
that when you do reach out to me give me
that feedback okay it's very important
the moneygps.com all right comment of
the day Daniel thank you very much uh he
says I think one of the biggest problems
is that people can't seem to take care
of themselves they rely too much on the
financial system I have no fear of cbdc
or Ubi because I have built a solar
generator I have seeds and I've grown my
own food and I've worked hard to get out
of debt most people will not take the
initiative to do this they will not
attempt to learn alright so I want to
thank you for that and of course I'm
planning on doing a case studies section
of the channel working on this it's
taking me a while here to build up the
case studies but I'm going to go
directly to you so that we can feature
you on the Channel I want to see more of
that the pillars of prosperity becoming
more self-sufficient increasing your
income these are the things we've got to
know so we have the truth the
devaluation of the currencies but as a
result of that we know the actions that
we can take these are just a few things
and I want to thank you for being here
hit that thumbs up button it's right
down there I appreciate when you do that
take your financial audit at the
moneygps.com I want to see you over
there as well take care